---
layout: post
title: "Final Reflection"
author:
- Jacob Collier-Tenison
---
Creating a website for the Faulkner County Museum has been a really great experience. The museum’s mission is to “to educate the public regarding the natural and cultural prehistory and history of the geographic region which today is known as Faulkner County.” Having a website will help them as they pursue this goal because it will allow them to get visitors into the museum and to educate patrons through the website’s digital gallery. It has been really enjoyable to apply the skills I have learned in the classroom to do work that will have a positive benefit on the community. By working with the museum, I have also seen how much care goes into the experience and services that the museum provides. 

Working on the Faulkner County Museum website gave me the opportunity to apply many different skills. On a basic level, I was able to apply the foundational coding skills I have been learning to complete this project. While I have taken a number of coding courses throughout highschool and my first year and a half of college, I have never really applied those skills in a non-academic way. This project gave me the opportunity to do just that. Through the course associated with this project, I have also developed more specific skills that have been instrumental to completing this project. These skills lay the foundations for creating and implementing databases and web systems, specifically through Microsoft’s Razor Pages Framework. Without going through everything we did in class, it would have been impossible for me to contribute to this project in the same way. In addition, working on this project has been very beneficial to my learning experience. I am a kinesthetic learner, so the opportunity to go through all the steps of working with a community partner and creating this project has been invaluable to me. It is real world experience that I can easily apply outside of the classroom. 
	
It was not just my technical skills that allowed me to carry out this project; my interpersonal skills have also been fundamental to my role in this project. I relied on my leadership and communication abilities to work with a team to complete the project. In addition to my technical responsibilities on the project, I was in charge of team-management. In this role, I helped to organize the team so that everyone would know what to work on and I worked to keep us on track to meet our client goals. This also included preparing for presentations and holding discussions with other members about their roles in the project. Without these skills, it would have been very difficult to carry out this role on the team. Outside of our team, I have also had to communicate and lead discussions with the director of the museum, Lynita, to determine what she was looking to achieve from this project. Of course, I have also had the opportunity to further develop these skills by working to fill that role on our team. 

In addition to the personal benefits that I experienced by working on this project, I am grateful for the opportunity to have been able to contribute to the Faulkner County Museum’s mission. The Museum has a strong focus on educating and providing resources for the public. I believe that the mission is important to preserve the history of Faulkner County, and to give people who live here a better understanding of the area in a broader historical context. In addition, the museum likely holds extra significance for the people who descend from Faulkner County natives, allowing them to understand their own history a little better. 

In my experience with the Faulkner County Museum, I have learned that their work goes beyond simply preserving history. The museum also works to build community in the area through events such as the annual Holiday Open House. Events like this one allow people to come together and get to know their neighbors a little better. So, while I do not believe the museum is not necessarily a tool of broad social change, the work it does is important to the community. The act of people coming together and being able to know where they are from is so important to our sense of identity and belonging. I believe that an institution does not have to hold the mission of invoking social change to do good and important work in their community, something that the Faulkner County Museum exemplifies. 

Before this project, I honestly would have not thought much of a relatively small, local museum such as the Faulkner County Museum. However, getting to know the museum and its director, Lynita, has changed that. I can see how much she cares about the work that she is doing and how important the mission of the museum is to her personally. As the only employee of the museum, she works hard with her team of volunteers to provide the many services that the museum offers to the community. I can see that the museum is doing valuable work and that, frankly, it is a good and worthwhile place to visit. There is a lot to be learned from history, and it is important to preserve history, not just on a global or national level, but on a local level. 

Completing this project has also allowed me to reflect on the ways that I can serve my community. I have volunteered in many different capacities, but this is the first time I have been able to directly apply the computer science skills I am building in school. Serving the technological needs of non-profit goals is a worthwhile endeavor and something that I will keep in mind when I am looking for ways to serve in my communities going forward. Volunteering can be more impactful and meaningful when I apply my knowledge to really support organizations, such as the Faulkner County Museum, in new ways. While this project has not really changed the way I view the causes that I support, it has made me realize new ways that I can support these causes. I am grateful for the opportunity to create this project for the Faulkner County Museum, and I hope that our project will be of benefit to them as they look to continue on their mission. 
